[Music]
for one thing it would take way longer
to get from point a to point b
for comparison a direct flight from
london to new york takes around eight
hours
if there were no planes it would take
you more than two days to get across the
atlantic ocean by the world's fastest
ship
if there were no planes you wouldn't be
able to visit your friends and relatives
who live in other countries
or even on other continents as often as
you'd like to
you'd have to rely on the internet to
stay in touch with your dear ones
you would never experience that moment
of panic when you're trying to choose
between tomato and orange juice
meanwhile the flight attendant and what
seems like half the plane is staring at
you
no airplanes would also affect your diet
but not seriously
not that much food is transported around
the world by planes
a mere 0.16 percent most products that
come from abroad travel by reefers
special refrigerated ships or in
refrigerated containers on
ordinary ships
[Music]
and still people would start to eat more
local food
and that would be great for local
businesses seasonal food would also
become more popular
which would benefit your health tourism
would be very different without
airplanes
lots of people would travel inside their
home countries simply because their
vacation time wouldn't be enough to get
to any far away places
traveling abroad would become something
memorable people would start treasuring
such trips more than they do now
with no foreign tourists lots of
countries would lose one of the main
sources of their income
without airplanes there wouldn't be such
a great variety of flowers and flower
stores
you would mostly see local plants
nothing too exotic
for example about 80 percent of flowers
sold in the uk
come from the netherlands but the
netherlands in turn has flowers
delivered by air from
ethiopia kenya and other countries birds
wouldn't have to watch out
not to get into a mid-air collision with
an airplane
without planes there wouldn't be such
sports as skydiving aerobatics
air racing or aero modeling if there
were no planes
you wouldn't have to wait in endless
lines at the security check
throw away your half-finished bottle of
water or pull your laptop out of your
carry-on for inspection
if there were no airplanes the
international business wouldn't do so
well
sure thanks to video conferencing it's
now possible to have meetings without
spending hours in an aluminum tube
but people still prefer to negotiate
face to face
and see for themselves the goods they're
buying traveling by train car or
ship to visit overseas partners would
surely slow the world's business down
lots of people would probably envy birds
the world of sports would also have some
structural changes
international competitions would happen
way more rarely than now
just picture how long it would take a
sports team to get from africa to
australia
or from europe to america by sea hey
i'd just start a new ocean liner company
and call it the tom
cruise yeah no oh well
you would never hear a person in a
uniform ask you chicken or
fish if there were no planes you
wouldn't be able to see the clouds from
above
or how our planet looks from the height
of 30 000 feet
without planes it would take ages for
your parcels
especially international ones to arrive
there wouldn't be a fast shipping option
which would probably make your online
shopping less exciting
foreign band concerts and world tours
would be few and far between
it would take performers up to several
weeks to get to the most distant places
by train bus or ship
there would be no airports all 40 000 of
them
it means huge areas would be used for
other purposes
see for yourself the world's largest
airport by
area king fod international airport in
saudi arabia
spreads over the area of more than 300
square miles
it's the size of new york city there
would be no such professions as
pilots flight attendants airport staff
aircraft mechanics
engineers and assemblers 65.5 million
people working in air travel industry
now
would have other jobs if there were no
airplanes
you wouldn't have a chance to taste
airplane food whether you like it or not
rescue operations would take much longer
sometimes
arriving too late if there were no
airplanes
people wouldn't get aerial pictures of
astonishing natural wonders cities and
towns
you wouldn't know what it is to wait at
the baggage carousel for your suitcase
to appear
only to find out it's been lost you
wouldn't have an opportunity
to waste money on souvenirs at duty-free
stores
or miss your flight while drinking a cup
of coffee at an airport cafe
now on the bright side the air would
become cleaner
these days aircraft are responsible for
emitting loads of co2
one of the most common greenhouse gases
to have an opportunity to travel around
the world
people would have to invent new or
develop the already existing kinds of
transport
for example high-speed trains or
super-fast ships
the current world's fastest train
shanghai's maglev
reaches the speed of 267 miles per hour
the fastest passenger ferry can travel
at 67 miles per hour
but it's not the limit anyway without
planes our world would become slow and
probably less exciting
but what if people built a high-speed
vacuum train instead
these futuristic transporters would zip
through tunnels with no air inside
such sealed tubes would have very low
air pressure and trains would travel
through them
experiencing little or no air resistance
or friction
theoretically this would help vacuum
trains reach mind-boggling speeds
of four thousand to five thousand miles
per hour
it would take you about an hour to get
from new york to paris
and you would spend less than an hour on
the way to sydney to singapore
people with aerophobia would be able to
travel more and wouldn't feel stressed
at that
unless they have claustrophobia and then
all bets are off
on the other hand you wouldn't have
enough time to have a nap in your seat
on a vacuum train
your journey would even be too short to
watch a movie
unless it's around the world trip then
if you traveled along the equator
you'd have time to watch several
blockbusters since your journey would
take a bit more than six hours
traveling by a vacuum train you wouldn't
have a chance to enjoy the view outside
the window
everything you'd see would be the
tunnel's dark walls blurring past you
vacuum trains would cause less pollution
than more conventional types of
transport
they would have lower co2 emissions than
traditional high-speed trains
and at a speed of 250 miles per hour
they would have around half the co2
emissions of the average car
and four times less than a short
distance plane flight
with vacuum trains there would be no
friction between the rails and the train
itself
it would mean way less noise than let's
say airplanes produce
if you could get to your office by vac
train you would be able to work not only
in another city or country
but even on another continent your
commute would take an hour or so not so
different from the time people spend on
their way to work in big cities
it would be a common thing to spend a
weekend on the other side of the world
with the construction of underwater
tunnels people would have nothing to do
but study the ocean floor
maybe then we would explore a bit more
than the mere five percent of the most
mysterious place on earth
on the flip side this exploration would
likely cause ocean pollution
while constructing the tunnels people
would also break into the peaceful
underwater world and disturb its
inhabitants
backtrains would allow people to cross
the oceans much more rapidly than they
could before
the only alternative these days is
relatively slow ships and
airplanes fast but not enough
vacuum tunnels construction would also
change the way dry land looks
people would have to drill through
mountains flatten hills
drain swamps you get the idea unlike
high-speed trains
vacuum trains would be able to transport
goods for any distances
and at breakneck speed bottom line
well it's way too expensive to swap it
all out so we'll just keep the airplanes
and make even better ones
if that's okay